---
layout: exam
num: e01
ready: true
desc: "Midterm 1"
exam_date: 2019-10-28 17:00
qtr: f19
valid_or_invalid: '<span style="font-size: 200%;">&#x2610;</span>&nbsp;Valid&nbsp;&nbsp;<span style="font-size: 200%;">&#x2610;</span>&nbsp;Invalid '
---


<ol>

<li class="page-break-before" markdown="1">

As a reminder, in Java, `java.util.ArrayList` is a class that implements
the `java.util.List` interface.   Given those facts, for each of the
statements below, check whether it is valid, or invalid, and when
you mark invalid, explain why.


<style>
table.valid_or_invalid * td { padding: 6px; color: black; }
table.valid_or_invalid * td:first-child { border-right: none;}
table.valid_or_invalid * td:last-child { border-left: none;}
</style>


| ` List<String> a = new List<String>();`           | (3 pts) {{ page.valid_or_invalid }} |
| ` List<String> b = new ArrayList<String>();`      | (3 pts) {{ page.valid_or_invalid }} | 
| ` ArrayList<String> c = new List<String>();`      | (3 pts) {{ page.valid_or_invalid }} | 
| ` ArrayList<String> d = new ArrayList<String>();` | (3 pts) {{ page.valid_or_invalid }} | 
{:.valid_or_invalid}


</li>

<li class="page-break-before" markdown="1"> Throughout this exam, there will be questions of the form:

Suppose you are at a job interview and the interviewer asks you about `_______`.   How do you respond?

In each case, your answer will be graded partially on correctness, and
partially on whether the answer would help you get the job.  Your
answer should be:

* Not too long, and rambling.  That annoys the interviewer and wastes time.
* Not too short.  It's too short if it leaves out so much detail that the the
   interviewer isn't sure whether you really understand the concept.

This time, the interviewer says this:

> One of the goals of the team you'll be working on is to increase the
> test coverage of our product.  Do you know what test coverage is, and
> if so, can you explain it briefly?

Give an answer that:
* (6 pts) Explains briefly what test coverage is
* (4 pts) Mentions, specifically, by name, what tool you used in CS56 to measure test coverage in Java programs (e.g. in lab03 and lab05).

</li>


</ol>
