---
assigned: 2020-01-08 
assigned2: 2020-01-09 
desc: HFJ 3,4; JN7 Ch2 pp 19-32; Primitives, References, Instance Variables, Methods
due: 2020-01-15 12:30
due2: 2020-01-16 11:00
num: h02
ready: true

---

{% include no_staples_box.html %}

*Reading Assignment:* 

* Read HFJ Chapter 3 (especially pages 59-62) and the [online reading notes](http://ucsb-cs56.github.io/hfj/HFJ_Chapter_3/).
* Read HFJ Chapter 4 and the [online reading notes](http://ucsb-cs56.github.io/hfj/HFJ_Chapter_4/).
* As you read, also consult the online reading notes linked above. To do so, go to the online version of this homework, at [https://ucsb-cs56.github.io/{{site.qxx}}/hwk/{{page.num}}/](https://ucsb-cs56.github.io/{{site.qxx}}/hwk/{{page.num}}/) and click the links.
* Then, do the problems below.

<ol markdown="1" >

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li> Based on your reading in HFJ Chapter 3:

<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom: 3.5em;" markdown="1">
(5 pts) In Java, a variable can store a *primitive* or a *reference*.  Briefly: What's the difference?
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 3em;" markdown="1">

(5 pts) If I write `3.4`, is that of type `double`, or `float`?

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 3em;" markdown="1">

(5 pts) Declare `a` as a `double` and assign it the value 5.6 (as a `double`)

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 3em;" markdown="1">

(5 pts) Declare `b` as a `float` and assign it the value 7.8 (as a `float`)

</li>

</ol>

</li>


<li style="margin-bottom:2.5em;" markdown="1">

(5 pts) In C++, the name of a plain old array  of `Student` objects is not an object, but is rather a pointer to a `Student` (i.e. it is of type `Student*`.  What about in Java&mdash;is an array an object, yes or no?

<div class="pagebreak"></div>

</li>

<li markdown="1">
Variables that represent a primitive type (e.g. `boolean x;` or `int y;`) and  variables containing  object references (`String w;` or `Student z;`) have this in common&mdash;they are both composed of bits in memory.

But, as explained in HFJ Chapter 3, they differ in what the bits "actually" represent.   You won't get this one by just guessing&mdash;you really have to read the book.

<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1"> 
(5 pts) What do the bits that represent `int y;` represent?

Assume that `y` is assigned the value 13

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1">

(5 pts) What do the bits that represent `String w;` represent?

Assume that `w` is assigned the value `"foo"`.

</li>
</ol>

</li>


<li markdown="1"> Based on your reading in HFJ Chapter 3, p. 59-62
  and HFJ Chapter 4 p. 84:

 <ol>
  <li style="margin-bottom:4em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) 
  Suppose I have a class called `Course`.   
  How do I declare and allocate space for a plain old Java array called `courses` that can hold 5 references to `Course` objects?
  </li>

  <li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) 

 Java `for` loops look pretty much just like C++ `for` loops (see HFJ
 page 10 if you really need to check.)  Given that, assuming there is a
 default constructor `Course()` that you can call to create
 a new `Course` object, write a `for` loop that
 initializes all of the elements of the array `courses`
 (from the previous problem) to be instances of the
 `Course`> class. 
  </li>

 </ol>
</li>


<li> Consider these questions about memory&mdash;answers are in HFJ Chapter 3

<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom:3em;" markdown="1"> 
(5 pts) Assuming the same JVM, can the amount of memory taken up by 
an object reference differ for different kinds of objects (say `String` vs. `ArrayList<String>`?)
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:3em;"> (5 pts) Assuming the same JVM, can the amount of memory
taken up by the object itself differ for different kinds of objects
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:3em;" markdown="1"> (5 pts) Can the amount of memory
taking up for an object reference for a object particular type (say
`String`) differ from one JVM to another?
</li> 

</ol>

</li>

<li markdown="1"> HFJ Chapter 4 discusses the difference between the `==` operator and the `.equals` method.    

<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom:3em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) Under what circumstances should you use the `==` operator to compare two variables? 
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:3em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) Under what circumstances should you use the `.equals` method to compare two variables? 
</li>

</ol>

</li>

</ol>