---
assigned: '2019-10-07 17:00'
desc: 'JN7 Ch7: Naming Conventions and Javadoc'
due: '2019-10-10 17:00'
num: h05
ready: true
polynomial_lab: "([lab04](/f19/lab/lab04))"
javadocs: "https://ucsb-cs56-f19.github.io/STAFF-lab04-dev/apidocs/"
---
<div style="display:none;"> https://ucsb-cs56.github.io/f19/hwk/h05
</div>
*Reading Assignment:* We are skipping ahead to Chapter 7 in JN7 (pp. 247-262). because the information doesn't really depend much on the earlier chapters, and because
it is so useful.    The only things you need to know are:
* Skip over the section on p. 247 about "modules"; we won't need that yet (if at all in this course).
* You can skip from where it says "Doclets" on p. 259 to the end.

You should also have the starter code for the Polynomial lab {{page.polynomial_lab}}  handy when you work on this
assignment, since:
* it contains many examples of Javadoc comments
* some of the questions will refer to it.
You may also want to look at the formatted javadoc here: <{{page.javadocs}}>

<style>
table.circle-one { border: none; width: 100%; margin: 1.5em 1em 1.5em 1em;}
table.circle-one * td { border: none; padding: 0px 2em 0px 2em;}
</style>

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li markdown="1"> (10 pts)  What is the naming convention for packages?   

</li>

<li style="clear:both;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) What is the package name for the starter code for the Polynomial lab {{page.polynomial_lab}}?


</li>

<li> (5 pts) When following usual Java naming standards, as outined in JN7, class names should start with (circle one):

<table class="circle-one">
<tr>
<td>a lowercase letter</td>
<td>an uppercase letter</td>
<td>any letter</td>
</tr>
</table>

</li>

<li> (5 pts) When following usual Java naming standards, as outined in JN7, class names should normally (circle one):

<table class="circle-one">
<tr>
<td markdown="1">use camel case,<br> as in `CamelCase`
</td>
<td markdown="1">should use snake case, as in `Snake_Case` 
</td>
<td markdown="1">should use kebob case, as in `kebob-case`
</td>
</tr>
</table>


</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;"> (5 pts) What is the circumstance where you might have a series of all capital letters in a class name?

<div class="pagebreak" />
</li>

<li> (5 pts) When following usual Java naming standards, as outined in JN7, method names should start with (circle one):

<table class="circle-one" style="width:80%;">
<tr>
<td>a lowercase letter</td>
<td>an uppercase letter</td>
<td>any letter</td>
</tr>
</table>

</li>

<li> (5 pts) When following usual Java naming standards, as outined in JN7, method names should normally (circle one):

<table class="circle-one">
<tr>
<td markdown="1">use camel case,<br> as in `CamelCase`
</td>
<td markdown="1">should use snake case, as in `Snake_Case`
</td>
<td markdown="1">should use kebob case, as in `kebob-case`
</td>
</tr>
</table>

</li>

<li markdown="1"> (5 pts) Field names (also known as attributes, or data members) should normally use the
same naming convention as (circle one): 

<table class="circle-one">
<tr>
<td markdown="1">class names
</td>
<td markdown="1">method names
</td>
</tr>
</table>


</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 10em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) What is the circumstance when a field name should be in all captial letters?



</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 10em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) What is the special syntax for the beginning and end of a java documentation comment (also called a *doc comment*
or a *javadoc comment*)?  



</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 10em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) What should every javadoc comment start with?



</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 10em;" markdown="1"> (5 pts) Which javadoc tag should be in every javadoc comment for a method except when the method
is void (or is a constructor as opposed to a normal method?)


</li>

<li style="margin-bottom: 10em;" markdown="1"> (5 pts) Find a method in the Polynomial lab {{page.polynomial_lab}} starter code that uses either the `{@literal }` or `{@code }` tags.  Write the name of the method,  which one (`{@literal }` or `{@code }`) is used,
and briefly explain how it is useful in that context.   You may also want to look at the formatted javadoc at this link: <{{page.javadocs}}>


</li>


</ol>



